 MODIFIED STRIP ANALYSIS METHOD FOR PREDICTING WING FLUTTER AT SUBSONIC TO
HYPERSONIC SPEEDS

( NASA Langley Research Center )

A modified strip analysis has been developed for rapidly predicting flutter 
of finite-span, swept or unswept wings at subsonic to hypersonic speeds. 
The method employs distributions of aerodynamic parameters which may be 
evaluated from any suitable linear or nonlinear steady-flow theory or from 
measured steady-flow load distributions for the underformed wing. The method 
has been shown to give good flutter results for a broad range of wings at 
Mach number from 0 to as high as 15.3.

The principles of the modified strip analysis may be summarized as follows: 
Variable section lift-curve slope and aerodynamic center are substituted 
respectively, for the two-dimensional incompressible-flow values of 2 pi and 
quarter chord which were employed by Barmby, Cunningham, and Garrick. 
Spanwise distributions of these steady-flow section aerodynamic parameters, 
which are pertinent to the desired planform and Mach number, are used. 
Appropriate values of Mach number-dependent circulation functionsare obtained 
from two-dimensional unsteady compressible-flow theory.

Use of the modified strip analysis avoids the necessity of reevaluating a 
number of loading parameters for each value of reduced frequency, since only 
the modified circulation functions, and of course the reduced frequency 
itself, vary with frequency. It is therefore practical to include in the 
digital computing program a very brief logical subroutine, which 
automatically selects reduced-frequency values that converge on a flutter 
solution. The problem of guessing suitable reduced-frequency values is thus 
eliminated, so that a large number of flutter points can be completely 
determined in a single brief run on the computing machine. If necessary, it 
is also practical to perform the calculations manually.

Flutter characteristics have been calculated by the modified strip analysis 
and compared with results of other calculations and with experiments for Mach 
numbers up to 15.3 and for wings with sweep angles from 0 degrees to 52.5 
degrees, aspect ratios from 2.0 to 7.4, taper ratios from 0.2 to 1.0, and 
center-of-gravity positions between 34% chord and 59% chord. These ranges 
probably cover the great majority of wings that are of practical interest 
with the exception of very low-aspect-ratio surfaces such as delta wings and 
missile fins.

This program has been implemented on the IBM 7094.

COSMIC, and the COSMIC logo are registered trademarks of the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration. All other brands and product names
are the trademarks of their respective holders.

LANGUAGE: FORTRAN IV

MACHINE REQUIREMENTS: CDC 6000 SERIES

PROGRAM SIZE: APPROXIMATELY 1,714 SOURCE STATEMENTS

DISTRIBUTION MEDIA: 9 Track 1600 BPI EBCDIC Card Image Format Magnetic Tape

PROGRAM NUMBER: LAR-10199

DOMESTIC - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $49.00    PROGRAM PRICE: $400.00

INTERNATIONAL - DOCUMENTATION PRICE: $98.00   PROGRAM PRICE: $800.00
